---
title: Human Being vs. Human Doing
layout: post
categories: philosophy
---

The term "human being" means a lot more in this age of instant access to information, little computers in our pockets, social media, and a post-industrial revolution that places a premium on knowledge work over blue collar or service work. <!--more--> Silicon Valley and the tech industry have influenced the way we think about ourselves in relation to work. You can see it in the sayings of the tech giants: Fail Fast, Work Hard and Make History, Do More Faster, Be Productive. And the list goes on and on. The sayings appear common-sensical and no one would disagree with them. But underneath those sayings in the context of a competitive tech industry and a society that expects people to work hard and do more as a measure of someone's worth (this ~~brainwashing~~ mindset is especially true in the United States) is this: You are a **Human Doing**. 

A Human Doing is different than a Human Being. A Human Doing is someone who has been programmed to not have self-awareness and to believe that their worth is in doing more--faster and better than the competition. A Human Doing cannot sit still and enjoy the present moment. A Human Doing typically lives in the urban areas, frequently checks social media, does not typically have a hobby in the arts, and works a lot without ever questioning why they should work so much to begin with. Most importantly, a Human Doing lacks self-awareness: the ability to slow down, to question one's life, values, and choices, and to be honest with one's relationship to their family, their friends, their society. A Human Doing is typically a corporate drone with golden handcuffs who simply can't leave a job that they hate. But a Human Doing can be working in any industry large or small. They are not free, either economically or spiritually.

A Human Being is different. They are critical thinkers and are self-aware of the brainwashing by a tech-influenced, cowboy-capitalist, materialistic society. They still participate in such a society. But with the knowledge that it's all bullshit. They resent being constantly distracted. They dislike the excesses of social media, the open-air office, and the tacit acceptance by society of being reachable after working hours. They dislike the excesses of email and chat rooms ala Slack and Outlook. A Human Being actually likes nature. You will typically see them hiking, skiing, or traveling off the beaten path. And most importantly, a Human Being prefers focusing on one thing at a time and doing it well-not because it's profitable-but doing something well for the sake of doing it well.  
